In Vietnam, we
respectfully ask Ms. Yen a question:
Firstly, regarding the
monastic community, today is the day of observing the Eight Precepts. After the community has settled
down, there is the
eighth precept, which is not to eat
beyond the prescribed time. We usually eat more than the prescribed
time. I ask, if so, will we receive a Buddhist penalty? If so,
what kind of prayer or words would be appropriate and
better? Secondly, regarding the fruit of the tree,
if we offer the fruit
today, can we take it down the next day,
or will it remain attached to the
sacred fruit? I respectfully
ask for your explanation. Ms. Duyen, regarding your words,
dear fellow practitioners, the eighth precept is
not to eat beyond the prescribed time, meaning we eat only one
meal a day. Today,
we did not eat beyond the time stipulated by the temple,
meaning we eat just enough to nourish our
bodies, practicing moderation and contentment. Therefore,
this eight-precept system for us monks is to eat one meal a day,
following a set pattern.  It's clear to you, sister,
that we eat only one meal a day. The reason we
don't eat is because of
our prescribed time, which is 11:00 AM. The
monks' rule
is to eat from 11:00 AM onwards; we don't
eat until 12:00 PM. But today, the temple only allows eating at
12:30 PM, so we still eat
one meal a day. The atmosphere here is clear, isn't it? The Eight
Precepts of the Lay Buddhist Order state that we eat only one meal a day, not that we eat too much. It's clear to you, sister, that we
only ate one meal a day during the time of the Buddha.
Because that's the time when
people cook their meals, so the monks had to
go very early.
Yes, to avoid disturbing the
people and Buddhist followers, firstly, if we go begging
too late, we won't be able to get any
food, or secondly, if we
encounter
devout Buddhists, they might see the monks,
but if we go begging
too late, they'll have already eaten.  Then they
continued cooking, but it wasn't too much
trouble, so the Buddha made the rule that one shouldn't
eat too much before the start of the meal. That's the reason.
Also, the official rule is to eat one meal
a day, remember that. And don't be too good,
don't eat too much. The
meaning of "not eating more than one meal a day" is what
matters. Because of our duty,
we can eat at 12:30, or at
2:00, or even at 12:00. That's our
assigned duty, don't worry about anything. The
monks have already offered food to the Buddha. When we eat,
we only need to say "Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni," and then we just need to say "Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, may
I ask permission to eat." That's it. The
second point is about offering fruit and incense on the
altar. Then, the
next day, we can buy
ripe and green fruit, and we also offer incense.
Remember, we buy ripe and green fruit,
and we also offer incense.
So when the incense
starts to burn, it's still okay
because it has something to offer.  The fragrance doesn't last long.
But usually, on the 15th and
1st of the lunar month, we don't offer fruits or wood offerings,
meaning we replace them, or
if there's a task, we replace them. Because
before, we invited
another group of spirits, meaning love. Then
now we invite another group of spirits to replace them. As for
our retreat, we just leave the peaches
ripe. When they're ripe, we put them down. When they're
not yet ripe, we leave them as they are.
Every day at home, we do the same.
When the peaches are ripe,
we put them down. When they're ripe, we leave them
there until 999,
until we need to take them down. That
's also the fragrance
emanating from the fruit, and the fragrance... will it
all be gone? No, it won't be gone, don't worry.